This is my diary for my product development as well as the ongoing events
and my plan for the entire project
Starting date from 29th September


29th September 2022
I made my first commit today by creating the README.md file
with the introduction the Kloon - my project.


1st October 2022
I am spending more time to learn more about Spotify and its features to implement into my
project Kloon. First, I thought of the idea of giving it a logo, so I went on the Internet to look
for a logo which has letters KL, which will pretty much represent Kloon and make some sense to it.
I found one that I really like from the internet, and I have decided to contact the image owner if I
could use their image for my personal project, and they agreed.

4th October 2022
At first I am considering choosing the appropriate tools and techniques for my project.
I have decided to use Flask as my framework
Python as my main coding language
HTML for scripting langauge
CSS for styling my web pages
Also, I will use sqlite3 for hosting my database locally
I prefer this to PostgreSQL even though I find PostgreSQL better
because I do not need to open a connection to a remote database, and
I am not planning to buy a domain for my web application. It means that I could just host
my database locally to the best of my convenience.

7th October 2022
Today I plan to get a structure of the folders in my code first
since the more organised my folders are, the better when I modify
my configuration inside Pycharm.
I will get it done by sorting all of my code and necessary files into python folder on GitLab
Also, I will not have to mess around my
code and try to find the location of any files if I have to use their paths for segments
of my code later.

Today I have also written and prepared my project plan to be submitted and graded by my supervisor.

10th October 2022
I have not really been doing anything with my project as I just submitted my project plan.
Also, I was spending most of my time on just preparing my project plan.
Which means that I did not concentrate on doing any of my other work.
When I am doing something, I will put 100% of my efforts in getting it done as soon as possible
I am focusing on revising the materials of the other modules including lab sheets.

13th October 2022
I have got my free time now, so I am starting to look at the music that I want to put in Kloon.
The aim is to put 100 songs into the database, which is quite ambitious I know.
However, I am facing a copyright problem as all the songs are artist's work and grey matter.
Hence, I will not have access to a million of songs from artists all over with a variety of
genres, countries for free, and I have to work my way around it.
It means that I will have to pay for their songs because my morals do not let me
get on pirated websites and get them for free, not only it is harmful for my pc, but also it
will be considered being unprofessional in my opinion.
I really want to show my appreciation to the work of the other artists.
Another way of doing it is that using Youtube music converter to convert Youtube music videos
into mp3 files but again that is illegal.
I will take this into consideration and come up with a solution for the next few days.


16th October 2022
I aim to finish my list of 100 songs that I want to add into my database today.
Since the number of songs are limited, I would only like to choose one of the best songs
to the best of my likings and my favourites.
Additionally, I have finally decided that I will pay for the songs to be able to download it.
If I want to make some work that I will look back later or be used to demonstrate to people,
I would better get it from a legal source because this project is literally like my child,
I want to treat it well and give it all the best possible.

19th October 2022
I am just started my machine learning coursework and this week.
I have finished writing down the list of songs that I will add into Kloon.
Now I will actually go on Beatport - a popular website for downloading EDM
(Electronic Dance Music) tracks. With the price ranging from £0.99 to £1.98
for all the tracks that I am looking for.

22nd October 2022
I have paid a total of £145.98 for 100 tracks with 81 Drum&Bass tracks and 19 other
tracks of Trap, Hardstyle, and House. It is a bit of money, but then it will be worth
it because I am going to definitely reuse my work later.
I plan to have an idea of how I will put the tracks that I bought into my database.

25th October 2022
I have learned about how to visualise the tracks with a player using HTMl, so I have
got an idea of how to put my tracks into my database now.
I can get it done by extracting the source of the tracks in my music folder and put it
into audio section of my HTML file.
However, to be able to do that, I will have to store the source of my tracks in the table
containing all information about my tracks.

28th October 2022
I have got a meeting with my supervisor today to talk about my plan ahead, the work
I have done so far and any further adjustments to my work. I really treasure the talk
that we had today during the meeting as he kept encouraging me and giving me really valuable
advices and suggestions.
I have finished my first coursework for machine learning module and submitted it.
I have just been working on my machine learning coursework and have not put any thoughts
towards my project. Right now I am going to move on to finishing the advanced algorithms
and complexity assignment which is due on 2nd November.
On the other hand, I did have an idea of how my home page would look like, so I did look at
Spotify web page to get some ideas and turned out I have customised the idea of my own home page.
I will have some previews of songs that I want people to try and hear, just like a discovery
section

1st November 2022
I have spent the past days doing researches for advanced algorithms and complexity assignment,
and I just submitted it today. Right now I am trying to wrap my head around creating a database
first, thinking of the possible tables and having some researches of implementing and making
sqlite work together with the first step of initialising the database.

4th November 2022
I am struggling when setting up my GitLab repo and trying to put them into Pycharm IDE
through Terminal on my Mac. I had to deal with MacOS Keychain when I was setting my information
for my GitLab account. It took me ages to do research and set up my MacOS Keychain to be able to
connect to my GitLab account using Terminal and integrate it into my Pycharm IDE.

7th November 2022
Today I have done the work for UCD(User-Centred Design) module submission,
and now I can get back to my project after setting up my IDE completely.
I have done my another research on how 'os' module to be used for choosing the path
to store my database.
Right now I am spending hours trying to create a table using sqlite3, but I kept receiving
errors like cannot find the path to my database. Even though I have checked my database
generation path over and over again, and made sure that everything is correct; still I
could not seem to resolve the problem. I will sort that in a few days as I still need to keep
learning and get myself more familiar with flask framework.

10th November 2022
I have resolved the problem completely, turns out that it was the configuration from Pycharm
IDE that messed up my source path for my database. I have printed out the source path, so I fixed
my configuration with the working directory is the root folder of my project, which is PROJECT.
By deleting src/main/python, the code is working fine again. I really need to be careful with
the source path as later on I may have problems when I am trying to reuse an object or put an
object on unit test.

14th November 2022
I am still putting tracks into music table that I have created, it is indeed a bit of
time-consuming task. I have just managed to put in 40 tracks today. I will do the rest in a few
days since I needed to work my way round the tracks to be able to show it on the website.

17th November 2022
I have been working on the other modules and just submitted the coursework 2 for advanced
algorithms and complexity module. In the next few days, I plan to focus on the other coursework
submit them as we are getting closer to the end of this term and there will be a lot of deadlines.

20th November 2022
Today I have done the second coursework for machine learning. Additionally, I have completed
putting 100 tracks into my database, and I am now doing some more research on how to make flask
work with html to extract the source of my music into my html code. Finally, after experimenting
and playing around a lot, I have managed to extract the source path of my track to work together
with flask and html. I am planning to get my home page done for the next few days.

23rd November 2022
I am struggling with configuring of div blocks and arranging them altogether as I strive for
perfection with every single small detail of my home page. I have familiarised myself with all css
syntax as I managed to put my blocks altogether as expected and symmetrical as how I planned them to be
from the beginning. I have spent quite a bit too much time on just configuring the home page and tried to
make it as most perfect as possible. I will now start working on my interim report towards the end of
this term.

26th November 2022
I have documented my code and just focusing on getting my UCD module group project done and working on
my interim report at the same time. Now I am working on filming the video for my interim report.

29th November 2022
The report for UCD have been submitted, I am working the last bits of my interim report to be submitted.
I will be working on the individual report for UCD alongside with the new machine learning assignment
that I have just been given.

1st December 2022
I am going to finish my interim report soon. I have just done working on my UCD individual report
and submitted it the Moodle page. It has taken me quite a bit of term doing research and reflective
work.

2nd December 2022
I just heard from my family this morning that my grandparents just passed away. It has been
heart-breaking for me, and it was probably the worst morning I have ever had in 2022. My
grandparents have raised me alongside with my parents since I was just a little child. I am catching
next earliest flight to get back to my hometown in Vietnam to see my grandparents once again before
they get cremated along with the coffin. I have cried so much today and again today is an awful
day for me.

3rd December 2022
I have got back to Vietnam now, and I was in such a hurry with a very unstable mental health at the
moment. After getting back from airport, I have realised that I have left my laptop at home in the UK,
with my interim report in there, and it was stored locally on my Mac, which was the worst part. I
could only blame myself for everything, I was in a hurry, I was trying to grab what was just possible
at that moment. My brain was just thinking about my dearest grandparents at that time. I can say that
I am feeling the most vulnerable right now as things just go out of my way one after another, things
just get out of hands.

6th December 2022
I do not think I will be able to work on anything at the moment. I am still crying very much right now,
and I wish that I would be able to feel a bit better for the next few days because I have got my third
assignment for machine learning to get done as well.

10th December 2022
I am finally feeling a bit better and learning to accept the facts that it is just how life works.
I have got to continue progressing and not allowing myself to have anything to hold me back. I have
started doing my third assignment for machine learning now, and hopefully it will be done right just in
time. I will get back to my project as soon as I complete setting up software, tools, IDEs needed
for my dad's PC at home.

12th December 2022
I have submitted my last machine learning assignment, and now I am going to set up my dad's PC to
continue working on my project as I have just done the home page for it. Also, I am preparing for my
trip back to the on 16th December as I feel like my mental health has improved after spending some time
with my family during Christmas holiday. I have put and edited the requirement file, so it would run
and install the right version with necessary plugins and imports of bcrypt, flask, etc... to make
sure that it would be able to run on any machine later on in the future. That will also guarantee
the most compatible requirements, so I would not have to spend time later on setting up them all by
myself.

16th December 2022
I am getting the flight to the UK now, and I should arrive by tomorrow. I will leave all of my worries
behind back at Vietnam, and get ready to bounce back, get back to my work routine in the UK.

19th December 2022
After getting back to the UK and having finished settling down with everything including my mental
health. I have now managed to put basic functionalities for my home page such as log in button or
button back to the home page. I am planning to work on the login page to authorise access as well as
improving securities for my web page. After all, security features are crucial for a web application
as information is very vulnerable online or mostly exposed to the hackers.

22nd December 2022
I am learning bcrypt, a hashing and salting feature that will hash the user password and will always
produce the same hash for the same password. I am still trying out and testing to implement this
login feature

25th December 2022
I have tried putting some users into the database, and they turned out to work quite well after getting
stuck for quite a bit of time of this because I did not really familiarise myself with this hashing
and salting method. However, I have got the hang of it right now, and I will progress to test my login
page when I have done the html file for it, so I could see some sort of visualisation of my work.

28th December 2022
I am still stuck on the login page. I cannot really help myself to get a solution to be able to
get to the music page that displays music by getting the right user login credentials, it keeps
failing to log in even thought the login details are correct as I inserted them into the user table
of my database myself.

1st January 2023
I am still finding my way around to try and fix the login problems. It would not function as how I
want it to do, so I am now checking and debugging my code step by step carefully. Hopefully, I can
solve the problem for the next few days.

4th January 2023
I have managed to put my login credentials correctly and now the login page is working just fine.
I have tried different approaches and found the root of the problem. Now I can even check if the
username given is experiencing an aliasing problem with the other usernames in the database.
Though I have submitted my individual report for UCD module, I am going do check it again
and add some more features to it as my team was sending mr more materials to work on the report.

7th January 2023
I have fully submitted my individual report for the UCD module and right now I think I will be writing
some unit test cases for the Database class that I have written. I am trying to import the single python
class file into the unit test file, but it does not seem to recognise the original class file to run
and test it. Hence, I am stuck again, I will work through it for a few more days to try to figure out
what the actual problem is because it keeps telling me that it could not find the original file.
I aim to finish testing this class so the software engineer TDD cycle will be followed strictly.

10th January 2023
After days of experimenting it, I have figured the way to import the original python file into the
unit test file now. At the moment, I am confident to say that I have handled the way how to work
around import statements and avoid circular import because that was the actual problem,and I spent
a lot of time doing research to understand the root of the problem.

13th January 2023
I have got family problem again as my mum was diagnosed with an awful skin disorder called psoriasis
a few days ago. Not only that, my dad has not been taking care of my mum, and she had to went to hospital
to check her condition all by herself. Also, my parents want to split up since they are getting along
with each other really well anymore. Again, I feel sad, and obviously my mental health is affected.
I am going back to Vietnam soon to take care of my mum for a bit since she is feeling really down and
all by herself right now.

16th January 2023
I am going to the airport today to catch a flight back to Vietnam. I am bringing my laptop
this time, which is good. On the flight right now I am thinking about putting artwork for the
song while I was brainstorming ideas of how to improve user experience and make my web application
more interesting as well. I will consider the importance of it because that would mean that I may have
worry about copyright problem again. Therefore, I will think of it for a few days.

17th January 2023
I have got back to my mum at the moment and spending time taking care of her right now. She has
felt a lot better since I got back. I am going to go back and unpack then I will try putting some
pictures in my songs. I actually talked with the artists that actually made the artwork of those songs
and got their permission to use their artwork as part of my work, so it would not be a big problem
to me right now anymore. However, I cannot afford the time and efforts to go around and ask 100 other
artists to get their permission to use their artwork for every of my songs. Hence, I am going to ask
just 3 artists to get their artwork featured in the corresponding songs and put it on top of my home
page.

22nd January 2023
My mum condition has not got any better, I have figured that putting image in the song is just the same as putting music into the database
for flask to work with html and python. I will have to get the source path of the images in the
related folder to get them on display. Hence, I managed to do Kloon logo and put 3 artworks of its
corresponding songs on my home page to visualise it.

25th January 2023
I am taking part in sorting out the split up plan together with my parents today and hopefully my
parents will all be happy. I will continue to stay with my mum until she feels more comfortable,
and when her condition gets better as well.

28th January 2023
I am still travelling back and forth from home to hospital and back home communally. I am still
trying my best now to think of any ideas right now, but it will just not come up. Probably, I am
not in a stable mood right now to think of any other thing other than my mum.

1st February 2023
My mum condition is progressing a little well, a bit positively. After some talks with my mum
and my family, I can finally feel comfortable and assured to focus on my work right now. The past
weeks have not really been easy for me. It is just relief to me to see her get bit better day by day.
Right now I need to work on my mental health first, a lot has been going on for the past few months
to me, and I will learn my way to handle it. Life will just go on, and I will just have to
accept whatever will come next.

4th February 2023
I am working on the css for my home page, my login page and my music page right now. I start to get
some ideas of how it will look like somewhat for my login page, I will just try to make is look
simple but elegant which will please my eyes.

7th February 2023
I am now doing my first functional programming assignment at the moment. Also, later on I will move
straight onto my computational optimisation assignment.

10th February 2023
I have submitted my functional programming assignment today. I will spend the next few days to get
my computational optimisation done as soon as possible, so I can move back to implementing and
finish my project right after.

13th February 2023
I am now finishing the last bits of my computational optimisation assignment, and I will probably
submit it today.

16th February 2023
My mum can finally go home now along with her treatment at home. She no longer needs to be in
hospital anymore, the condition is progressing very well, and I literally cannot hold myself back
from tears. She can take care of herself now, and I am planning my flight to the UK again. I should
catch a flight for the next few days. I will be preparing for the flight, so I will stop doing my
work for a few days.

19th February 2023
I am having flight today back to the UK. I will soon settle and finish the rest of my code.

22nd February 2023
I have finished the rest of my unit tests for all of my Python classes. Additionally, I can
confidently say that I have handled basic functionalities through the tests and ensured that
there will be no problems with my code under my examination. I have tested all of my functions and
the test result came out as expected. For the next few days I am going to work on my second
functional programming assignment, and then I will work on my second computational optimisation
assignment.

25th February 2023
I have started getting ideas for my final report for my final year project as well as the total
structure of it. I plan to have at least 5000 words for it by the end of this month.

28th February 2023
I am finishing off the second assignment for functional programming today. I plan to submit it in
a few days. I have completed the project specification section for my final year project final
report.

1st March 20232
I have just submitted the last piece of the second assignment for functional programming today.
Now I will work on the second piece of assignment for computational optimisation. I plan to finish
it by 7th March.

4th March 20232
I am now still staying focused on doing the second assignment for computational optimisation. I
am now choosing the topic to write for professionalism as well. I am doing research about it at the
moment. Hopefully, I will come up with an idea soon of what I want to right. In a few days, I should
know what to write about.

7th March 2023
I have submitted the second assignment for computational optimisation. I have now chosen the topic
for professionalism about Licencing: shareware, open source, copyright, patenting, reverse engineering.
This is obvious because I have encountered quite a few issues while I was implementing this web
application. Also, I have spent a lot of money as well. Moreover, Spotify uses a lot of open source
software. This would be an interesting topic to talk about since it is very much related to my final
year project.

10th March 2023
Today I am making a demo video, a proof of concepts showing how I deploy my code and get it to work.
Besides, I will show how my web application operates and runs under the most realistic view. I will
talk about its functionalities and how I have configured my working environment in my Pycharm IDE.
On top of that, I will also demonstrate how I have set up virtual environment and installed
plugins requirements for this project.

13th March 2023
Today I have got my left shoulder dislocated while training at the gym, unfortunately. I was later
on sent to A&E department at Ashford and St.Peter's hospital. It is hurting very much, and I can barely
move my left shoulder. I was waiting for 7 hours before getting inspected. I was told to have a
joint injury for my left shoulder then I was given a sling for my arm. I am now spending the whole night in
the hospital, and I will be able to get back the next day. I was told to limit my movement with my left shoulder to
the least possible. Also, I will have to attend therapy sessions with NHS staff for my shoulder
recovery progress.

16th March 2023
I have started writing and doing researches for my cybersecurity report. However, my productivity
is very limited because sitting up to do work is a real pain for me. I do need the bed to rest. I have
also applied for extenuating circumstances to get a bit more time to work on my project due to the
unexpected injury that I have received. Hopefully, I can get a bit more time to finish my work because
I have also applied for an extension.

19th March 2023
I have to keep writing my cybersecurity literature review today alongside with the final report.
I am encountering a bit of problem since I have got a sling on my left shoulder, and I have to write
the report with just one arm. I have also got a meeting with my supervisor today to share about the events
that happened to my life recently. I really appreciate the fact that my mental health has got a lot
better after the meeting as much advice, suggestions, recommendations were given. I am feeling so
much better now, that was a valuable talk that kept me going on with my work. I am feeling very
grateful and happy right now.

22nd March 2023
I am going to finish the literature review for cybersecurity soon to be submitted. Then, I will
move straight away to work on the final report for final year project.

24th March 2023
I have submitted the literature review for cybersecurity, and now I am focused entirely on just getting
my final report for final year project done.









